---
layout: post
title:  "Diné People Are the Future STEAM Fair"
date:   2024-10-29
categories: event
author: Franklin Stewart
---
# “Diné People Are the Future” STEAM Fair

We would like to thank the Coconino High School Robotics (Team 2486), the Coconuts for hosting the “Diné People Are the Future” STEAM Fair on October 29th at the Luepp Elementary School. The Four Corners Science and Computing club was among various organizations from Flagstaff and the Navajo Nation participating in the event.  We took the initiative to provide a tabling exhibition, which featured our vast STEAM activities and experiments.  We provided students with hands-on STEAM activities throughout the evening for students, educatorts, and community members.

The event kicked off with a quick assembly for students, who also participated with vendors to create science experiments and gain experience through hands-on STEAM activities.  The event also had a live robot demonstration presented by the Coconuts.  Other vendors presented experiments for water filtration, radiation detection, and acid/base projects.  This event provided 4CSCC an opportunity to showcase our lab manual to students and community members.

The 4CSCC booth showcased the Raspberry Pi 400 mobile kit and micro:bit, we also included our air quality lessons.  The goal was to expose students to the world of physical computing by providing a hands-on approach to scientific computing, i.e., sharing our Micro:Bit lessons, where students can manipulate data from environmental sensors.  Having multiple stations with various projects allows students to see how simple projects start and can be used in everyday life.  For instance, using air quality sensors in their homes or workplaces gives them an understanding of how their environment affects their health.

Aligning hands-on STEAM activities to promote and engage students and community members with science and technology enables them to set goals and challenge themselves to become tech-savvy for their future career prospects.  For more information about the Coconuts, visit their website [HERE](https://team2486.org/).
